=head1 NAME

Parse::Marpa::Doc::Why - Why call this parser "Marpa"?

=head1 WHY CALL IT MARPA?

Marpa is the name of the greatest of the Tibetan "translators".  In
that time (we're talking the 11th century AD) Indian Buddhism was
at its height.  A generation of Tibetan translators were devoting
themselves to producing Tibetan versions of Buddhism's Sanskrit scriptures.
Marpa was their major figure, and today he is known simply as Marpa
Lotsawa: "Marpa the Translator".

In the 11th century, translation was not a job for the indoors type.
A translator needed to study with the teachers who had the
texts and could explain them.  That meant going to India.  Marpa's
home was in the Lhotrak Valley.
The route from the Lhotrak to India was via the three-mile high Khala Chela Pass,
two hundred difficult and lawless miles away.

From Khala Chela to the great Buddhist center of Nalanda
University was four hundred miles downhill,
but Tibetans would stop off for years or months in Nepal,
getting used to the low altitudes.
Tibetans had learned
not to go straight to Nalanda the hard way.
Almost no germs live in the cold,
thin air of Tibet,
and Tibetans arriving
directly in the lowlands had no immunities.
Whole expeditions had
died from disease within weeks of arrival on the hot plains.

=head1 BLATANT PLUG

There's more about Marpa in my new novel, B<The God Proof>, in which
his studies, travels and adventures are a major subplot.  B<The God
Proof> centers around Kurt GE<ouml>del's proof of God's existence.
Yes, I<that> Kurt GE<ouml>del, and yes, he really did work out a
God Proof (it's in his I<Collected Works>, Vol. 3, pp. 403-404).
B<The God Proof> is available at Amazon:
L<http://www.amazon.com/God-Proof-Jeffrey-Kegler/dp/1434807355>.

