=head1 NAME

Marpa::API::Models - Alternative Input Models

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The standard model of input is as stream of tokens.
Marpa implements the token-stream model,
and the rest of the documents assume that
the token-stream model is the one in use.

But Marpa also allows other input models.
These are the subject of this document.
Readers not interested in alternatives to the token-stream model
may skip this section.

=head1 STUFF TO WORK IN

    From the earleme description:

    Each argument represents a token which starts at the B<current earleme>.
    Because ambiguous lexing is allowed.
    more than one token may start at each earleme,
    in which case, there will be one argument per token.
    Because tokens can span earlemes,
    no tokens may start at an earleme
    in which case the call to C<earleme> will have zero arguments.

Marpa allows ambiguous tokens.
Several Marpa tokens can start at a single parsing location.
Marpa tokens can be of various lengths.
Marpa tokens can even overlap.

For most parsers, position is location in a token stream.
To deal with variable-length and overlapping tokens,
Marpa needs a more flexible idea of location.
Marpa's idea of position is location in an B<earleme> stream.
B<Earlemes> are named after Jay Earley, the inventor of the first algorithm
in Marpa's lineage.

While scanning, Marpa keeps track of the B<current earleme>.
Earlemes in an earleme start at earleme 0 and increase numerically.
The earleme immediately following earleme 0 is earleme 1,
the earleme immediately following earleme 1 is earleme 2,
and so on.
The earleme immediately following earleme I<N> is always earleme I<N+1>.

B<Distance> in the earleme stream are what you'd expect.
The distance between earleme I<X> and earleme I<Y> is
the absolute value of the difference between I<X> and I<Y>,
I<|X-Y|>.
The distance from earleme 3 to earleme 6,
for example, is 3 earlemes.

Whenever a token is given to Marpa to be scanned,
it starts at the current earleme.
In addition to the type and value of the token,
Marpa must be told token's B<length> in earlemes.
The length of a Marpa token must be greater than zero.
This earleme length will become
the distance from the start of the
token to the end of the token.

The start of the token is put at the current earleme.
If the length of the token is I<L>,
and the number of the current earleme is I<C>,
the end of the token will be at the earleme number I<C+L>.

=head2 The One-Character-Per-Earleme Model

Many different models of the relationship between tokens and earlemes
are possible, but two are particularly important.
One is the one-token-per-earleme model.
The other is the one-character-per-earleme model.

Every character will be treated as being exactly one
earleme in length.
Any tokens which are more than one several character in length,
will span earlemes.

When a one-character-per-earleme model of input is used,
there will be many earlemes at which no tokens start.
In a standard implementation
of a grammar for a language which allows
comments,
for example,
no tokens will start at
any earlemes which corresponds to character locations inside
a comment.

=head2 Other Models

Marpa is not restricted to the one-character-per-earleme model.
Most parser generators treat location as position in a token stream.
In Marpa, this correspoind to a
one-token-per-earleme model.

If you use the C<earleme> method, you can structure your input in almost any way you like.
There are only four restrictions:

=over 4

=item 1

Scanning always starts at earleme 0.

=item 2

Earleme I<N> is always scanned immediately before earleme I<N+1>.
In other words, the earlemes are scanned one by one in increasing numerical order.

=item 3

When an earleme is scanned, all tokens starting at that earleme must be
added.
It is perfectly acceptable for there to be no tokens
starting at a given earleme.
However, once earleme I<N> is scanned,
it is no longer possible to add a token starting at any of the earlemes
from 0 to I<N>.

=item 4

With every token, a length in earlemes must be given,
and this length cannot be zero or negative.

=back

Marpa parsing can remain active even if
no token is found at the current earleme.
In the one-character-per-earleme model,
the current earleme might fall in the middle of a
previously recognized token
and parsing will remain active at least until the end of that
token is reached.
In the one-character-per-earleme model,
stretches where no token either starts or ends
can be many earlemes in length.

=head2 Earlemes

A recognizer is created with
the current earleme
set at earleme 0.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2010 Jeffrey Kegler, all rights reserved.
Marpa is free software under the Perl license.
For details see the LICENSE file in the Marpa distribution.

=cut
