=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b28 table

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 base

  # Returns 'ORDB::AU::Census2006'
  my $namespace = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->base;

Normally you will only need to work directly with a table class,
and only with one ORLite package.

However, if for some reason you need to work with multiple ORLite packages
at the same time without hardcoding the root namespace all the time, you
can determine the root namespace from an object or table class with the
C<base> method.

=head2 table

  # Returns 'bcp_cd_b28'
  print ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->table;

While you should not need the name of table for any simple operations,
from time to time you may need it programatically. If you do need it,
you can use the C<table> method to get the table name.

=head2 load

  my $object = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->load( $region_id );

If your table has single column primary key, a C<load> method will be
generated in the class. If there is no primary key, the method is not
created.

The C<load> method provides a shortcut mechanism for fetching a single
object based on the value of the primary key. However it should only
be used for cases where your code trusts the record to already exists.

It returns a C<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28> object, or throws an exception if the
object does not exist.

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->select(
      'where region_id > ? order by region_id',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b28 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b28> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28> objects when called in scalar
context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 iterate

  ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->iterate( sub {
      print $_->region_id . "\n";
  } );

The C<iterate> method enables the processing of large tables one record at
a time without loading having to them all into memory in advance.

This plays well to the strength of SQLite, allowing it to do the work of
loading arbitrarily large stream of records from disk while retaining the
full power of Perl when processing the records.

The last argument to C<iterate> must be a subroutine reference that will be
called for each element in the list, with the object provided in the topic
variable C<$_>.

This makes the C<iterate> code fragment above functionally equivalent to the
following, except with an O(1) memory cost instead of O(n).

  foreach ( ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->select ) {
      print $_->region_id . "\n";
  }

You can filter the list via SQL in the same way you can with C<select>.

  ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->iterate(
      'order by ?', 'region_id',
      sub {
          print $_->region_id . "\n";
      }
  );

You can also use it in raw form from the root namespace for better control.
Using this form also allows for the use of arbitrarily complex queries,
including joins. Instead of being objects, rows are provided as C<ARRAY>
references when used in this form.

  ORDB::AU::Census2006->iterate(
      'select name from bcp_cd_b28 order by region_id',
      sub {
          print $_->[0] . "\n";
      }
  );

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->count(
      'where region_id > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b28 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b28> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS

=head2 region_id

  if ( $object->region_id ) {
      print "Object has been inserted\n";
  } else {
      print "Object has not been inserted\n";
  }

Returns true, or throws an exception on error.

REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b28 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b28 (
      region_id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      b4413 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4414 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4415 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4416 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4417 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4418 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4419 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4420 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4421 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4422 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4423 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4424 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4425 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4426 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4427 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4428 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4429 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4430 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4431 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4432 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4433 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4434 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4435 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4436 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4437 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4438 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4439 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4440 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4441 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4442 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4443 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4444 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4445 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4446 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4447 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4448 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4449 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4450 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4451 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4452 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4453 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4454 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4455 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4456 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4457 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4458 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4459 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4460 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4461 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4462 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4463 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4464 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4465 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4466 REAL NOT NULL
  )

=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 AUTHOR

AdamKennedy E<lt>adamk@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 - 2012 AdamKennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

