=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b38 table

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 base

  # Returns 'ORDB::AU::Census2006'
  my $namespace = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->base;

Normally you will only need to work directly with a table class,
and only with one ORLite package.

However, if for some reason you need to work with multiple ORLite packages
at the same time without hardcoding the root namespace all the time, you
can determine the root namespace from an object or table class with the
C<base> method.

=head2 table

  # Returns 'bcp_cd_b38'
  print ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->table;

While you should not need the name of table for any simple operations,
from time to time you may need it programatically. If you do need it,
you can use the C<table> method to get the table name.

=head2 load

  my $object = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->load( $region_id );

If your table has single column primary key, a C<load> method will be
generated in the class. If there is no primary key, the method is not
created.

The C<load> method provides a shortcut mechanism for fetching a single
object based on the value of the primary key. However it should only
be used for cases where your code trusts the record to already exists.

It returns a C<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38> object, or throws an exception if the
object does not exist.

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->select(
      'where region_id > ? order by region_id',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b38 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b38> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38> objects when called in scalar
context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 iterate

  ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->iterate( sub {
      print $_->region_id . "\n";
  } );

The C<iterate> method enables the processing of large tables one record at
a time without loading having to them all into memory in advance.

This plays well to the strength of SQLite, allowing it to do the work of
loading arbitrarily large stream of records from disk while retaining the
full power of Perl when processing the records.

The last argument to C<iterate> must be a subroutine reference that will be
called for each element in the list, with the object provided in the topic
variable C<$_>.

This makes the C<iterate> code fragment above functionally equivalent to the
following, except with an O(1) memory cost instead of O(n).

  foreach ( ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->select ) {
      print $_->region_id . "\n";
  }

You can filter the list via SQL in the same way you can with C<select>.

  ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->iterate(
      'order by ?', 'region_id',
      sub {
          print $_->region_id . "\n";
      }
  );

You can also use it in raw form from the root namespace for better control.
Using this form also allows for the use of arbitrarily complex queries,
including joins. Instead of being objects, rows are provided as C<ARRAY>
references when used in this form.

  ORDB::AU::Census2006->iterate(
      'select name from bcp_cd_b38 order by region_id',
      sub {
          print $_->[0] . "\n";
      }
  );

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->count(
      'where region_id > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b38 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b38> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS

=head2 region_id

  if ( $object->region_id ) {
      print "Object has been inserted\n";
  } else {
      print "Object has not been inserted\n";
  }

Returns true, or throws an exception on error.

REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b38 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b38 (
      region_id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      b4910 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4911 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4912 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4913 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4914 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4915 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4916 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4917 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4918 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4919 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4920 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4921 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4922 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4923 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4924 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4925 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4926 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4927 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4928 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4929 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4930 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4931 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4932 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4933 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4934 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4935 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4936 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4937 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4938 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4939 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4940 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4941 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4942 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4943 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4944 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4945 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4946 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4947 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4948 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4949 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4950 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4951 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4952 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4953 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4954 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4955 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4956 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4957 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4958 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4959 REAL NOT NULL,
      b4960 REAL NOT NULL
  )

=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 AUTHOR

AdamKennedy E<lt>adamk@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 - 2012 AdamKennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

