=head1 NAME

CPANDB::Distribution - CPANDB class for the distribution table

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<CPANDB::Distribution> provides an object representation of a distribution
in the CPAN. Because many CPAN websites are oriented around distributions,
this class serves as one of the primary integration points for the various
different CPAN databases providing information on popularity and testing data.

Distributions are also the primary plane on which graph-aware algorithms are
run, and on which metrics are calculated.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 base

  my $namespace = CPANDB::Distribution->base; # Returns 'CPANDB'

Normally you will only need to work directly with a table class,
and only with one ORLite package.

However, if for some reason you need to work with multiple ORLite packages
at the same time without hardcoding the root namespace all the time, you
can determine the root namespace from an object or table class with the
C<base> method.

=head2 table

  print CPANDB::Distribution->table; # Returns 'distribution'

While you should not need the name of table for any simple operations,
from time to time you may need it programatically. If you do need it,
you can use the C<table> method to get the table name.

=head2 load

  my $object = CPANDB::Distribution->load( $distribution );

If your table has single column primary key, a C<load> method will be
generated in the class. If there is no primary key, the method is not
created.

The C<load> method provides a shortcut mechanism for fetching a single
object based on the value of the primary key. However it should only
be used for cases where your code trusts the record to already exists.

It returns a C<CPANDB::Distribution> object, or throws an exception if the
object does not exist.

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = CPANDB::Distribution->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = CPANDB::Distribution->select(
      'where distribution > ? order by distribution',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
distribution table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM distribution> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<CPANDB::Distribution> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<CPANDB::Distribution> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 iterate

CPANDB::Distribution->iterate( sub {
      print $_->distribution . "\n";
  } );

The C<iterate> method enables the processing of large tables one record at
a time without loading having to them all into memory in advance.

This plays well to the strength of SQLite, allowing it to do the work of
loading arbitrarily large stream of records from disk while retaining the
full power of Perl when processing the records.

The last argument to C<iterate> must be a subroutine reference that will be
called for each element in the list, with the object provided in the topic
variable C<$_>.

This makes the C<iterate> code fragment above functionally equivalent to the
following, except with an O(1) memory cost instead of O(n).

    foreach ( CPANDB::Distribution->select ) {
        print $_->distribution . "\n";
    }

You can filter the list via SQL in the same way you can with C<select>.
CPANDB::Distribution->iterate(
      'order by ?', 'distribution',
      sub {
          print $_->distribution . "\n";
      }
  );

You can also use it in raw form from the root namespace for better control.
Using this form also allows for the use of arbitrarily complex queries,
including joins. Instead of being objects, rows are provided as C<ARRAY>
references when used in this form.
CPANDB->iterate(
      'select name from distribution order by distribution',
      sub {
          print $_->[0] . "\n";
      }
  );

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = CPANDB::Distribution->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = CPANDB::Distribution->count(
      'where distribution > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
distribution table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM distribution> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 uploaded_datetime

For situations in which date math will be done, the C<uploaded_datetime>
method can be used to access the date of the most decent release as a
L<DateTime> object.

Returns a L<DateTime> object with date attributes, without a time set,
and set at the UTC timezone in the 'C' locale.

=head2 age

The B<age> method finds the age of a distribution in L<DateTime> terms,
and where high age is considered a negative property. It is calculated as
the time between the current day and the date of the last release of the
distribution.

Returns a L<DateTime::Duration> object, with maximum resolution at the 'day'
level.

=head2 age_months

When expressing the age of a module in the CPAN, the most normal unit to use
is the month. Releasing more than once a month is considered high pace for a
CPAN distribution, while releasing every few months or even once per several
months is fairly reasonable for mature modules.

For situations when a single numeric value is desired to represent a
distribution's age, the C<age_months> thus provides a direct calculation of
this value.

Returns the age in months as an integer, with a value of zero if the module
has been released within the last month.

=head2 quartile

The C<quartile> method determines which statstical age quartile the
distribution falls into, between 1 and 4.

Quartile 1 represents "new" or "current" modules, which have seen
a release in at least the last year.

Distributions in the first quadrant are usually going to work and be up to
date, as the author is likely to be present (for new modules) or maintains
the module to a reasonable level of diligence (for older modules).

Quartile 2 represents "mature" or "stale" modules, which have seen a release
in the last several years, but not recently.

Smaller distributions with high CPAN Testers PASS rates and low or no bug counts
are often simply "mature" as they are essentially "finished" and don't need to
be extended. These will often see a new release only every 2 or 3 years to fix
trivial issues or match changes in some underlying dependency which has changed.

Larger distributions with non-perfect CPAN Tester PASS rates (or those with high
bug counts) can be considered to be "stale". However, their authors are still
likely to be around. Contacting the author may result in new releases due to the
your attention, or the author might be interested in handing off the module for
maintenance.

Quartile 3 represents "old" or "rotten" modules, which have not seen a release
in the last several years.

Modules with high number of other modules depending on them in this range may
simply be "old" and suffering from benign neglect due to the author moving on to
other careers, languages, or projects and not annointing a replacement

They aren't actively broken, but nobody remains to maintain them and they may
have crufty and hard to learn codebases. Due to entrenched workarounds for any
bugs they have, they can also be risky to change.

Modules without downstream dependencies in this zone are often "rotten", broken
due to changes in the modules around them and abandoned by anything that used
to depend on them.

It can also be common to find modules in this range labelled as "DEPRECATED" in
the abstract.

Quartile 4 represents the garbage dump of the CPAN. These modules tend to
largely be abandoned modules, ideas that failed dramatically, Acme:: joke
modules that have never needed updated releases, or modules who have been
replaced wholesale by updated core techniques or dramatically superior
replacements.

The oldest of these modules date from the age of Perl 4 and the earliest Perl 5.

=head2 dependency_graph

This method generates a L<Graph::Directed> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that are needed by it to work, recursively.

=head2 dependants_graph

This method generates a L<Graph::Directed> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that use the distribution, recursively.

=head2 dependency_easy

This method generates a L<Graph::Easy> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that are needed by it to work, recursively.

=head2 dependants_easy

This method generates a L<Graph::Easy> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that use the distribution, recursively.

=head2 dependency_graphviz

This method generates a L<Graphviz> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that are needed by it to work, recursively.

=head2 dependants_graphviz

This method generates a L<Graphviz> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that use the distribution, recursively.

=head2 dependency_xgmml

This method generates a L<Graph::XGMML> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that are needed by it to work, recursively.

=head2 dependants_xgmml

This method generates a L<Graph::XGMML> object linking the distribution to
all the other distributions that use the distribution, recursively.

=head1 ACCESSORS

=head2 distribution

  if ( $object->distribution ) {
      print "Object has been inserted\\n";
  } else {
      print "Object has not been inserted\\n";
  }

Returns true, or throws an exception on error.

REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The distribution table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE distribution (
      distribution TEXT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      version TEXT NULL,
      author TEXT NOT NULL,
      meta INTEGER NOT NULL,
      license TEXT NULL,
      release TEXT NOT NULL,
      uploaded TEXT NOT NULL,
      pass INTEGER NOT NULL,
      fail INTEGER NOT NULL,
      unknown INTEGER NOT NULL,
      na INTEGER NOT NULL,
      rating TEXT NULL,
      ratings INTEGER NOT NULL,
      weight INTEGER NOT NULL,
      volatility INTEGER NOT NULL,
      FOREIGN KEY (
          author
      )
      REFERENCES author (
          author
      )
  )

=head1 SUPPORT

CPANDB::Distribution is part of the L<CPANDB> API.

See the documentation for L<CPANDB> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 - 2010 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

